---
title: "Natron 2.4 Released"
author: "Frédéric Devernay"
description: "New Windows installer, documentation updates, UI adjustments, bug fixes!"
categories: [news, release]
date: 2021-04-19
layout: post
version: "2.4.0"
postimg: img/news/releases/2.4.0.jpg
---

Natron {{page.version}} is here!  As with all major releases everything you need to get started can be downloaded [here!](https://natrongitHub.github.io/#download)

## Major Changes

- Updated documentation. #572 #566 #551 #539 #538 #537 #520 #514
- Handle console output on Windows. #524
- Detect user installed fonts on Windows 10. #523
- New Windows installer. #596
- Improvements to SequenceFileDialog. #565
- Snap timeline alpha cursor to nearest frame. #574
- Handle UTF-8 values in KnobTable (fixes use of project path containing Unicode). #578
- Tabs UI adjustments. #564
- Do not allow Python keywords as node name or script name. #588
- Always serialize nodes with an expression or a link, even if they have the default value. #585
- Support cloned group nodes or hard links between groups. #568 #579 #594 #598
- Default keyframe interpolation method for strokes and shapes is now "Smooth" (was "Linear"). #597
- Fixed animation of Roto Beziers with non-broken tangents. #102
- Remember properties panels state when reopening project. #168
- Fixed slow node graph display on macOS 11 Big Sur. #606


### Plugins

- ReadFFmpeg, WriteFFmpeg: upgrade to work more nicely with the FFmpeg 4 API. #148 #231 #241
- ReadFFmpeg: add support for reading AV1 & Canopus HQ/HQX/Lossless.
- WriteFFmpeg: add support for writing AV1 & Cineform HD.
- Fixed another bug in DenoiseSharpen that caused crash when stoping/aborting. #300
- Fixed Lin2Log to be consistent with Log2Lin. #570
- Merge: never consider RGB as being transparent by default - this is OK for unpremultiplied compositing (After Effects) but is invalid in a premultiplied compositor such as Natron or Nuke. Users still have the option to ignore the alpha channel. #571
- WriteOIIO: Do not add "Color." to the channel names of the color plane (affects mainly OpenEXR). #583
- Writers: when writing RGBA to format that does not support alpha, just drop alpha - don't premultiply. #582
- RGBtoHSL: Fix bug with white and superwhite values. #512
- Reformat: Default to project size. #533

## Known Issues

### All Operating Systems

- Rendering sometimes silently stalls after X frames #248
- Some image formats may have issues (PCX, PSB, CR2) #602