---
title: "Natron 2.4.1 Released"
author: "Frédéric Devernay"
description: "This release adds hue vs hue to Huecorrect, motion paths, and a new color selection window."
categories: [news, release]
date: 2021-10-24
layout: post
version: "2.4.1"
postimg: img/news/releases/2.4.1.jpg
---

Natron {{page.version}} is here!  As with all major releases everything you need to get started can be downloaded [here!](https://natrongitHub.github.io/#download)

## Major Changes

- Default number of render threads is more reasonable on multi-core systems: `min(num_cores, RAM/3.5Gb)`. #554
- Fix checkerboard drawing on macOS Catalina and later. #614
- Fix undoing "Reset to default" on parameters. #630
- Fix NodeGraph manipulation and navigation issues. #491 #627
- Fix Retina/High-DPI display issues on macOS, Windows and Linux/X11. #635
- Fix multi-dimensional parameter linking (bug introduced in 2.4.0 #594). #631
- Fix bug where any argument containing an integer between commas would be interpreted as a frame range. #644
- Python: `app.saveProject`  and `app.saveProjectAs` now do project variable substitution, as in `app.saveProjectAs("[Variable]/output.ntp")`.
- Fix ASCII curve import. #656
- New color selection dialog for RGB and RGBA knobs. #210
- Fix histogram smoothing (was 5 times too strong).
- Add Python functions `guiApp.copySelectedNodes` and `guiApp.pasteNodes`. #390 #674 #675


### Plugins

- Transform, CornerPin, Position and Ramp nodes now display the motion path.
- HueCorrect now has the ability to do hue vs. hue adjustments, with an option to change the background curve guide. #610
- Merge: Fix behavior on most operators when A is not connected or A's RoD and B's RoD are disjoint. #647
- Reformat: fix bugs when "turn" is checked with Resize Type = None or Type = Scale.
- Write: Remove file first when overwriting. #666
- Mirror: Fix crash. #660
- SeNoise: Add option for colored noise.

## Known Issues

### All Operating Systems

- Viewer is not updated correctly after interacting with the transform gizmo in the viewer #708 - will be fixed in 2.4.2
- Rendering sometimes silently stalls after X frames. #248
- Some image formats may have issues (PCX, PSB). #602
- MTS video files are sometimes not read correctly. #186
