---
title: "Natron 2.4.3 Released"
author: "Frédéric Devernay"
description: "Render progress indicators, color palette support, project backup improvements, and bug fixes!"
categories: [news, release]
date: 2022-02-18
layout: post
version: "2.4.3"
postimg: img/news/releases/2.4.3.jpg
postimgalttext: ""
---

Natron {{page.version}} is here! As with all major releases everything you need to get started can be downloaded [here!](../../#download) Downloads for previous versions can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/NatronGitHub/Natron/releases).

This will probably be the last version supporting Python 2.7. Development will focus on supporting Python 3 and Qt 5, especially in the binary releases:
- Natron 2.5 will support Python 3 (Python 2 will be dropped).
- Natron 2.6 will support Qt5 (Qt 4 support will be dropped).

## Major Changes

- Added palette support in color selector. #754
- Allow creating a node with the same name that was just deleted. #732
- Natron can now keep up to 32 project backups (see Preferences/General/Save versions). #562
- Only display the overlays for nodes that are in the viewer render path and have their properties panel maximized. Can be disabled in Preferences/Viewer. #744
- Fixed rendering from Python (by calling app.render()) when nodes use Python expressions. #560
- Fixed drawing of closed Bezier overlays. #659
- RotoPaint does not reconnect to the viewer at each stroke by default. Added a button to the viewer interface to re-enable this behavior. #641

## Known Issues

### All Operating Systems

- Crash when closing a project window on macOS 12+ (Qt4 only). #712
- Rendering sometimes silently stalls after X frames. #248
- Some image formats may have issues (PCX, PSB). #602
- MTS video files are sometimes not read correctly. #186
