about.md, before:

---
layout: textpage
title: About Natron
---

# About

![An animated cartoon shot open in Natron](img/about-screenshot.png)

Natron is a free and open-source compositing application geared towards VFX work. It is currently actively developed by a small team of developers as a community effort.

We accept [feature requests and bug reports on GitHub](https://github.com/natronGitHub/natron/issues).

## Development

We regularly accept pull requests and are always looking for new contributors. If you are experienced in C++, Qt, and graphics programming, and are interested in contributing to Natron, please reach out to us!

For instructions on how to build Natron from sources please see [this section of our README document.](https://github.com/NatronGitHub/Natron#building-and-installing-from-source)

## FAQs

### Is Natron free?

Yes, Natron is free and due to its GPL license it always will be.

### What can Natron do?

Natron is suited to perform 2D compositing tasks. That means it can:

* Chromakey blue and green screens
* Rotoscope a moving object or person
* Combine multiple pieces of footage on top of each-other
* Perform 2D stablization and tracking
* Warp, crop, blur, and other effects
* Combine and edit render passes of OpenEXR files

Natron does *not* include 3D compositing features. You will need to use a 3D package like [Blender](https://www.blender.org/) to render your 3D objects before bringing them into Natron for compositing.

### Where can I donate to Natron?

While we appreciate your generosity Natron does not currently accept donations.  Currently all of our contributors have full time jobs and the amount we would likely receive from community donations wouldn't justify the administrative overhead of collecting them.  With that caveat aside, if you are a corporate entity willing to fund development on a larger scale please do reach out!

### Where can I find brand assets for Natron?

You can download our logo and wordmark on our [brand assets page](/brand).

Commit message:

Various changes by Siddhant + component extraction (#10)
* New logo page by Siddhant
* New brand page by Siddhant
* New and ported assets by Siddhant
* Extracted homepage repeated code to components
* Custom css for components and includes
* Rewritten homepage by Siddhant
* Archive unready links in footer
* More useful development information
* Build default branch, helpful if it is not main
* Allow manually running GitHub actions
* Remove need for branch-checking to fix workflow
* Minor syntax error fixes

---------

Co-authored-by: Henry Wilkinson <henry@wilkinson.graphics>

about.md, after:

---
layout: textpage
title: About Natron
---

# About

![An animated cartoon shot open in Natron](img/about-screenshot.png)

## Cross-platform open-source compositor for the visual effects industry

Natron is a powerful free and open-source VFX compositor geared towards digital post-production work, with industry-standard UI, 100+ nodes, and support for OpenFX and community-made plugins. With its robust OpenFX based engine and support for OpenImageIO and OpenColorIO, Natron can handle all of your VFX post-production needs.

Natron was a proud recipient of [Inria](https://www.inria.fr/en) funding from 2013–2018, and is currently being developed by a team of open-source contributors as a community effort.

We accept feature requests and bug reports on [our GitHub](https://github.com/natronGitHub/natron/issues).

## Development

We are always on the lookout for new contributions to Natron, be they minor bug fixes or big new features. As such, we regularly review the GitHub and accept pull requests. If you are a developer who is well versed in C++, Qt, and graphics programming, and are interested in contributing, please do not hesitate to reach out to us!

For instructions on how to build Natron from source, read through [Natron's README file on GitHub.](https://github.com/NatronGitHub/Natron#building-and-installing-from-source)

## FAQ

### Is Natron really free?

Yes, Natron is free software. Free to use, free to modify, and free to share, due to its open-source GNU GPL license.

### What can Natron do?

Natron is a powerful digital compositor capable of handling a multitude of VFX and post-production tasks. Natron's capabilities include but are not limited to:

- Linear node-based workflow
- 32bit/channel floating-point linear processing pipeline
- Industry-standard OIIO file format support
- Powerful chroma-keying and matte refinement
- Industry-standard rotoscoping and rotopaint
- Pixel-perfect tracking and stabilization
- Industry-standard OCIO color management
- Extensive OpenFX and community plugins support
- And much more!

Natron can be used in conjunction with [Blender](https://www.blender.org/) to extend it's capabilities by utilising Blender's 3D environment. This is facilitated by Natron's support for CHAN files for transferring camera tracking data.

### Does the Natron Project accept donations?

While we appreciate your generosity, the Natron Project does not currently accept donations.

### Where can I find brand assets for Natron?

If you wish to add Natron to the credits of your project or use the logo for other non-commercial purposes, you can download the logomark on our [brand assets page](/brand).
