brand.md, before:

---
layout: textpage
title: Natron Brand Assets
---

## Brand

Natron has a logo and you're welcome to use it to identify the program as long as you aren't impersonating the Natron organization or its developers through the use of these assets.  Please review the brief list of guidelines below.

[Click here to download our brand assets!](files/Natron-Brand-Package.zip)

### Please do:

- Use the Natron logo whenever you wish to give credit to the program, when using the logo in film credits please place it with any other relevant logos to ensure it does not imply that your film was created by Natron or its developers
- Try to use the full version of the logo with text wherever space allows
- Use the logo that provides the most contrast against the background it is placed on

### Please do not:

- Attempt to use the Natron logo to pass yourself or organization off as the developers of Natron
- Attempt to use the Natron logo as your own
- Modify the logo in any way

<!-- ### Community Badges

We're borrowing this concept from the Blender Foundation because it's great!  Do you make Natron-related content?  Use these assets to identify it as such!

These badges should not be used to identify Natron in film credits, when crediting the program please use our full logo as distributed in the brand assets package. -->

Commit message:

Various changes by Siddhant + component extraction (#10)
* New logo page by Siddhant
* New brand page by Siddhant
* New and ported assets by Siddhant
* Extracted homepage repeated code to components
* Custom css for components and includes
* Rewritten homepage by Siddhant
* Archive unready links in footer
* More useful development information
* Build default branch, helpful if it is not main
* Allow manually running GitHub actions
* Remove need for branch-checking to fix workflow
* Minor syntax error fixes

---------

Co-authored-by: Henry Wilkinson <henry@wilkinson.graphics>

brand.md, after:

---
layout: textpage
title: Natron Brand Assets
---

## Logo

<img class="brand-logo" src="{{ 'files/assets/Natron Full Logo White.svg' | relative_url }}" alt="Natron's full logo in white" />

Natron has lettermark and wordmark logos. The logos are properties of the Natron Project and are used to identify official Natron content. Third parties can use the Natron logo to provide credit to the Natron software or to refer to the Natron Project.

{% include download-btn.html 
   name="Download logo kit"
   href="files/Natron-Brand-Package.zip"
   styling="with-spacers"
%}

Several variations of the Natron lettermark and wordmark are available for use with different backdrops:

<img class="brand-logo" src="{{ 'files/assets/logos.jpg' | relative_url }}" alt="Brand logos for Natron, with a stylized N and Natron beside it" />

### Usage

You are welcome to add the Natron logo to your project's credits! When using the Natron logo in credits, care must be taken to avoid confusion about affiliation with the Natron Project, its developers and contributors. Read the usage guidelines below to understand how you can use the Natron logo.

### General Guidelines

The Natron logo is property of the Natron project. The logo and the name "Natron" are not part of the GPL, and can only be used commercially by the Natron Project.

Third parties may only use the Natron logo under the following conditions:
- The logo can only be used to refer to the Natron software or to give credit. When used with a link on a web page, it should point to Natron's website at <a href="{{ site.url }}">{{ site.url }}</a>
- The logo is used as-is, without fancy enhancements, in original colors, and original typography.
- The logo may be placed alongside others, e.g. when listing software in the credits.
- To use the logo on commercial products, you must contact us with a picture of how it will be used, and ask for explicit permission. Showing the Natron logo on film credits is not considered to be commercial use.
- The logo must not be used by third parties to impersonate or act on behalf of the Natron Project, its developers and contributors.
